Facebook's Business Model Built on Absence of Privacy
The business model powering Facebook is being revised following the Cambridge Analytica scandal and recent announcements from the company that “malicious actors” took advantage of its platform, admitting that “most people on Facebook" could have had data from their public profile stolen.

Facebook is attempting to save its reputation by saying it will fix flaws and introduce new privacy measures. But critics say that privacy has never been its main concern. Rather, its interests have always been the commercial exploitation of its users.

Since the Cambridge Analytica scandal, Facebook says it will increase its privacy restrictions with new, more honest policies. These include making it easier for users to see the data Facebook has on them, and no longer providing information from data brokers to advertisers – though it will continue to sell directly to advertisers.

Facebook founder, Mark Zuckerberg will appear before the U.S. House Commerce committee on Wednesday to answer questions about the website's privacy policies.

Critics argue that the Cambridge Analytica scandal is a result of Facebook’s business model, not a flaw in the system. It’s not that Facebook can’t build privacy measures into its system – it’s simply not in its financial interest to do so, Andy Yen, CEO of ProtonMail, told WikiTribune.

In 2017, Facebook earned $39.9 billion from advertising.

“Facebook makes money … by profiling us and then selling our attention to advertisers, political actors, and others,” wrote Zeynep Tufekci in the New York Times. “These are Facebook’s true customers, whom it works hard to please.”

The debate over online privacy is becoming more about who gets to control information than simply keeping information secure. Yen explained, Facebook's control of online information “is a huge risk to ... democracy as a whole.”

The Cambridge Analytica scandal is not the first time Facebook mishandled user data; the company faced public and official criticism over separate incidents in 2006, 2007, 2011 and 2014.

After the most recent scandal, the #DeleteFacebook movement gained popularity, but it is unlikely to have a serious impact as there is no viable alternative to Facebook.

In 2010, Zuckerberg commented that as social media grows, privacy will no longer be a “social norm.”
